Please have a seat. We have to begin. Do as you can. All right. Hi, everybody again.
We meet Fokker Kose. He will explain to us what he's doing in KDE and he's come from Germany.
We're very pleased to welcome him. Go on. Thank you.
Hello. I'll talk a bit about how we use public transport information in KDE itinerary. What
is this? KDE is a big open source community. So not a transport operator for once here.
We do all kinds of stuff. You can find us in the K building on the second level to look
at a few things we do. And one of the things we do is a transport assistance app called
itinerary. So in that you can import any kind of travel related things like flights, train
trips, bus trips, hotel reservations, event tickets, et cetera. And then group together
and put it into a timeline so you have all the relevant information at hand when you
need them. And we augment that with whatever might be helpful along the way, like the weather
forecast as the obvious example. Since we don't really have a lot of time, I'll have
to dive right into what we do with public transport data. You'll see some of the features
along the way then. So the first problem is we need to actually understand where you want
to go, ideally without you having to enter that manually, but by reusing documents or
material you already have. In the best case scenario, that material has machine readable
annotations about your trip. That is something that Gmail has been promoting. But outside
of airlines, I think in Europe at least, we have only seen that for Flix, bus and train
line. So none of the major railway operators, for example, have that. But there is a second
best thing, and that is the ticket barcodes. Most, not all of them, but luckily most contain
some information about the trip. And especially in international use, they are somewhat standardized.
So we actually have a chance to understand what's in them. The probably most well-known
one is the one from airline boarding passes that is a single standard that works globally.
So that is the absolute best case scenario. Only one thing we have to implement. For railways,
we don't have that luxury. But the European Railway Agency has at least defined a few
standards that are in use in Europe for international travel and in some countries also domestically.
The complexity of those standards varies greatly. The airline boarding passes, for example,
that is a simple ASCII string that is almost human readable. That's as easy as it gets.
The latest iteration from the European Railway Agency for the international tickets here,
the flexible content barcode, that is 2,000 lines of ASN1 specification defining 300 or
so mostly optional fields with some underlying packed encoding representation. So awesome
to debug, but extremely powerful. That's the ultimate other end of complexity then. Just
because it is standardized doesn't automatically mean this is also all openly available. Again,
your railway agency is the good example here. They have that on the website. If something
is missing, you ask them, they put it on the website. Perfect. Some of the other organizations
ask you for unreasonable amounts of money to get a PDF or require you to be a member.
And for that, you need to be an airline or railway agency, which we are not. Some of
those systems have cryptographic signatures, which we usually don't care about because
we only care where you travel, not if the ticket is actually valid. But in one case,
the FOWE ticket used in some areas in Germany, Luxembourg, the signature and the content
is somewhat intermixed. So we actually need to decode that. And just because something
is called a public key doesn't mean it's actually public on the website. In this case,
we got lucky. Extensive internet search found a 100 page PDF in a location where at pro
we shouldn't have been containing a screenshot where we found an URL pointing to an LDAP
server on which we found the keys. So it can be quite messy to work with this stuff. Most
of the standards have operator specific extensions. Those, of course, are not documented. For
the final point, is there anyone from China, Talya here? Too bad I have questions for them.
Then, of course, there's also a set of proprietary codes where our only option is reverse engineering.
For that, we rely on donations of sample tickets because everything we do is very much focused
on privacy. So once on your own device, we never get your actual tickets. So we need
them donated to work with them. There were ones listed here. For those we have more or
less understanding. Some we get enough out of it to work already. For some we can barely
prove that there is actually travel relevant data in there, but we have no way of decoding
that. For me, the most frustrating one is SBB because that is a fairly comprehensive
format. We understand most of it apart from the daytime fields. And without of that, it
is pretty much useless. So if there's anyone here from SVP who has hints or information
on how those tickets work, I would be very interested. Then, once we actually know where
you're going, and we have that in the timeline, we augment that with real-time public transport
information. The most obvious example is delays and disruptions, cancellations, platform
changes, that kind of stuff. We notify you about that. Another thing we do is filling
gaps in the itinerary. To get here, I book a train from Berlin to Brussels, but I actually
need to go from my home to the station, then take the train, and then in Brussels, somehow
get from the station to my hotel with using the respective local public transport. That
is something we can fill in automatically. And then the third thing is when you miss
a connection, we offer you to find alternatives for getting to the same destination. In order
to implement that kind of stuff, we need to get to that data. And there is unfortunately
not a single global service that gives us to us. So we need to query many, many different
sources depending on where we currently are, which can actually provide us this information.
So we have a bit of an abstraction layer over all those sources, which basically offers
three basic operations. Searching for locations by name or coordinate, searching for arrival
and departures at a specific stop, and searching for journeys from A to B. And on top of that,
we then build the higher level features. In terms of supported backends, that is basically
three different categories. The fully open source ones, those are the easiest ones to
work with, like Narisha, OpenTrip planner. Motus is still missing on that list simply
because there is currently no production deployment we have access to as soon as there is one.
We'll add that as well. Second category is things where the protocol is at least documented,
like the Open Journey planner used in Switzerland. And the third one, the most annoying ones
to work with, the proprietary legacy backends. But just having the protocols, of course,
is not enough. We also need to know where exactly are those respective services for
that. For that, there is the Transport API Registry. That's a collaboration with others
having that same problem, like Janice. And that is basically a collection of machine-readable
information about those services. Both where exactly do I need to connect there, which
protocol do they use, specific parameters I need to use. But also information like the
coverage area. Because for most of those services, that is kind of implied. If I have the Belgian
Transport app, the scope of that is implicit. Narisha is the exception that actually has
API for querying this. But if I want to pick the right backend, I of course need that information.
Very similar problem. All of what you see here is what Journey Query would describe
as Metro line one. But the signage is very, very different depending on where you are.
And the signage is something that is very prominent locally. So if I should show the
right thing in the app in order to help the user to find the right thing. But this isn't
really unique. So finding the right logo is somewhat tricky. What we do there is we get
the logo and the colors and all of that information from Vicky Data. The Vicky Data entry is linked
to an OpenStreetMap route relation. From that we get the geographic bounding box. And the
combination of geographic bounding area, name and mode of transport is mostly unique. And
that is then good enough to find the right locus. Okay. Then a few more things we integrate.
One is available rental vehicles. So rental bikes, electric kicks, scooters, that kind
of stuff. What you maybe can see in the screenshot here is a few available kickskooters. Some
shown in green, some shown in yellow. The yellow ones are those with a remaining range
of less than five kilometers. All of this is coming from GBFS. That is a nicely developing
open standard for that kind of information. And it is very actively evolving. Just one
or two years ago we wouldn't have that level of detail available. So that's a very nice
example of open standards and open source in that field. Coverage for that is somewhat
biased towards Europe and North America, though. I know that those systems exist in Asia as
well, but I have no idea if they use GBFS as well or if there's any other systems. So
again something where I would be interested in information. Another thing we integrate
on the train station maps is the real time status of elevators and escalators. So I think
in this case they're all shown in green, so they're actually functional. This is of course
something very relevant if you're traveling, say, with heavy luggage, a stroller or in
a wheelchair. The data source for that is Accessibility Cloud. That is the backend behind
realmap.org. That's also free software and they aggregate these kind of information from
many different sources. There is a bit of coverage bias towards Germany, so similar
data from other countries would be more than welcome. Another thing where we have a coverage
problem is train coach layouts. I think there's currently two or three countries where we
are getting this. Still it's widely different data models, so it's not quite clear yet how
we best abstract that. That is also somewhat relevant, especially on the long distance
trains which can get up to 400 meters. You want to know where exactly you need to go
on a platform, especially if you're in a hurry. One challenge there is that, especially in
the countries where we have that, OpenStreetMap doesn't contain many of the platform section
informations. That is the key to match those two datasets together, to have the proper
train layout displayed correctly on the actual station map. If you think further towards
the indoor navigation in a train station, that is kind of relevant. Pushing this topic
even further would be to also show insights of the train. At least Deutsche Bahn has very
detailed PDFs for human consumption of the interior. But there is currently, to my knowledge,
no machine readable format, say like OSM for trains. That is again relevant for accessibility,
for example. I need to know which parts I can go to and which parts I can't go to.
The last part that is very, very recent, a lot of work on that happened just yesterday,
is using the onboard APIs on trains. If you connect to the onboard Wi-Fi, there is often
some kind of portal page showing you information about the current trip. That's powered by
some API that we can use as well. Typically, this gives you current position, speed, and
heading, and information about the journey with delays on each stop. Just showing that
is of course the easiest way to integrate that. But the real value comes when we use
that for higher level features again. For example, checking if you are on the right
train. It might seem obvious, but if you are travelling in a country where you don't speak
the local language, or in case of a multi-set train that splits up along the way, it's
quite helpful if the software double checks that. Same for detecting if we have arrived
yet. That is something very, very easy to realise for the human, but it's actually surprisingly
tricky for the software to know. All of these things I've shown you are not
tied to the app specifically, but are available as reusable libraries. For example, Nextcloud
is using the ticket data extraction in the email client so you can automatically add
calendar entries for your ticket when you get them by email. I think there is much more
that can be built on top of all this. The itinerary app is basically for the irregular,
explicitly booked kind of travel, but doesn't touch the commute use case at all.
If you happen to know about any kind of relevant APIs or data sets, or have the documentation
for those, or for ticket formats, we would be very, very much interested. Same if you
have travel documents past, present or future that you are willing to donate to develop
the X Factor or not, we are happy to take those as well. Thank you.
Right. The position information we get on the train is essentially GPS, just like the
GPS receiver on the train. In theory, you could do that from the phone. The problem
is that reception inside a metal train is somewhat limited, so you usually get better
results by using the API for that. But it is essentially GPS data you get there, so
it's the same. Yeah.
How do you handle sometimes like conflicting labels of certain modalities, and imagine
before that the icon is a different type of transport? I think in Germany, actually, for
example, the sun's subsets return, the modality is like a tram, but people describe it as
a way of moving on. Yeah. That is an annoyingly complicated topic.
The modality is awfully undefined. I mean, there's neither a technical nor like a product-level
definition on what is a subway or metro or a tram, and it can be all kinds of hybrid
things. That is one of the metadata we carry from Wikidata alongside the logos and so on,
so if in doubt, we use that. But even that is there is some loss in there. I mean, there's
some cities where you have trams that go on long-distance railway outside of the city.
Yeah. I mean, we will never be able to capture these extreme special cases that a region
or operator-specific app can capture. So, I mean, that is the price we pay for that abstraction
and the one app that works everywhere approach. Yeah.
One question. You showed the data about the scooters and how it has, you said it's getting
better and the coverage is better. What is driving this improvement? Is that regulation
or why it's getting better? That is a good question. I don't know for sure.
I know that in some cities it is regulation. So, if you want a permit to operate your rental
system in that city, you are required to publish your feeds as GBFS and we then happily consume
that. I think another part is that somehow started very early by some US cities requiring
that to give out the permits for those systems and then that kind of became the standard
mode of operation for those services. So, if you get in very early, that works. I don't
think there is like national or new-wide regulation. So, this is usually something that differs
from city to city.
How many pictures have you integrated such on-demand buses? Regarding on-demand traffic,
some of the routing engines have that in their results. So, we can show that. But we currently
have nothing regarding actively booking things on-demand or otherwise because that is something
where there is practically no API available for external users. I don't think the railway
operators or especially the inverse with the private operators, they give that to smaller
businesses like us if they give it to anyone at all.
You mentioned computing. What about the case when I don't yet have a ticket but I want
to make the journey? So, for instance, in Germany I had a bank card 100. Is there a
possibility already to enter that somehow?
We also have like a general route search. So, you just specify where you want to go
and it offers you depending on where you start, the options from Virgin Barn, where
is in CF or wherever you are and then you can add that to the timeline as well. So,
there is the ability to do manual entry for that scenario. But that would be quite cumbersome
to do this every day for your commute. So, there you would want something that I know
I usually go to the office between 8 and 9 in the morning. So, inform me if there is
any deviation on my usual route but not necessarily make me enter this.
How is the checking done? Is it a push from the server or do you do this locally in the
app? Because I think if the app is continuously doing the checks in the background then is
it energy draining? You mean the checks for delays? Yeah, that is polling. There is none
of those services we use has a push service that we could use.